# COVID-19-Dashboard-Face-Mask-Detection-and-Social-Distancing-Detection-Algorithm
With the outbreak of the global pandemic, India seemed to reach its peak with regards to the number of confirmed positive cases in the months of April and May. Hence, the decision was made to develop a data visualization project with one of the efficient visualization tools Tableau to help people analyse the scenario of the cases across the country. In order to contribute to state wise and country wise analysis of COVID cases in India, 2 dashboards have been developed. The first dashboard consists of analysis of cases across the country giving a holistic and overall view of the number of deaths, positive cases and density of cases in each state which is done through colour variation. On the other hand, the second dashboard gives a detailed state-wise analysis of cases with the necessary parameters and details catering to each and every individual state as per the preference of the user. On merging these components together, users can get an all-inclusive analysis based on different parameters on the COVID'19 cases across India at a glance. In order to prevent a further spike in cases, implementing a face mask detection system will also take place after conducting a thorough analysis on the possible machine learning algorithms. Two major object detection algorithms were taken into consideration and based on the conclusion drawn, the best algorithm – RCNN was used to implement the face mask detection system. This project is solely motivated by the current extreme situation in the world and as an attempt to provide a solution to combat the same.
